---
slug: RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
title: RESOURCE EFFICIENCY 
stack: Html & CSS
type: CAR targets
category: People, planet, profit
order: 8
excerpt: Population explosion, coupled with improved lifestyle needs of people, results in increased solid waste generation in
urban as well as rural areas of the country. 
---

Population explosion, coupled with improved lifestyle needs of people, results in increased solid waste generation in
urban as well as rural areas of the country. 

All wastes become hazardous if not carefully disposed of resulting in irreversible damage to earth overtime. But what is equally important is that all waste is recyclable. 

Recycling reduces the demand of virgin materials, consumes less water and energy. There is a need to look at the waste not merely as an environmental polluter but a recyclable material of great potential and energy saver.

### Strategies for Waste Management & Reduction:

Types and quantity of waste generated by community will be monitored. Residents, staff and vendors would be educated on how to reduce the waste

Waste hierarchy shows the best way to avoid shrinkage of valuable resources by preventing waste from getting generated in the first place. The goal is to maximise efficiency and avoid unnecessary consumption through behaviours such as :

* Selecting items with the least packaging or that require the fewest resources to produce

* Avoiding disposable goods or single-use materials

* Buying products that are recycled, recyclable, repairable, refillable, re-usable or biodegradable

* Using leftover food rather than throwing it away

### KEY OBJECTIVES:

* To take all reasonable steps to ensure that wastemanagement controls are observed.

* To minimize the amount of waste generated and maximize the amount of waste reused and recycled.

* To reuse and recycle as much waste as possible on-site. Where on-site reuse is not possible, identify the most appropriate waste management option in line with the waste hierarchy.

* To manage waste as close as possible to the site location.

* To provide training to improve awareness of waste management issues with all residents, staff and vendors and to improve waste management practices on-site.


<quote>"Back Creek Climate Hub is a Zero waste to landfill project"</quote>

### Types of Waste :

 Domestic waste can be broadly classified in to 5 types

* Dry Waste (paper, plastics, tetra packs, cardboard, glass, thermocol, etc)

* Wet Waste (food leftovers, rotten fruits, eggshells, tea leaves, flowers, etc.,)

* Sanitary Waste (sanitary napkins, diapers, bandages, condoms, etc)

* E- Waste (all electronic waste like batteries, phones, chargers, computer parts, appliances, etc.,)

* Hazardous Waste (chemicals, cosmetics, paints, oils, medicines, syringes, razors, broken glass, etc.,)

### Segregation of Waste at Home Level :

For simplification and ease of segregation for residents, there would be three bins only at home level

* Dry Waste

* Wet Waste

* Reject Waste – Sanitary & Hazardous Waste.

* Wet waste would be transferred to the Biogas plants for power generation & compost

* Dry waste would be transferred to central waste storage facility where it will be further segregated into papers, cardboard, plastic, metals, rubber, thermocol, etc.,

* Closed loop systems

* All recyclable materials will be sent to recycling facility and non-recyclable plastics will be used as raw material in plastic to fuel/energy systems to recover energy.

* Sanitary waste like diapers and sanitary napkins must be covered fully in newspaper and marked with a red cross. They will be incinerated within the site.

* E-waste is collected quarterly by the housekeeping team and stored centrally and will be picked up by recycling vendors

* Hazardous waste like chemicals, paints, oils, pesticides will be separately stored in the HHW bin at the
central waste storage facility and will be handed over to permitted Hazardous waste treatment facility

